It's Stephanie Cruise of Ellen Links and today it's the 10th of November 2022 and I'm talking to Hugh.
Hugh, could you give me your full name and year of birth please?
Yes, I'm Hugh Rickards and I was born in 1964 so I'm 58.
Thank you very much. Now, back in August this year you visited Ellen Valley.
Can you tell me why you came and what your first impressions were?
Okay, yes, well I came from Birmingham as part of a group called the GOATS.
The GOATS stands for Getting On At The Shed, which is a group of people, it's an over 50s group based in our local park,
who get together, we try to do good things and get interested in things and look after each other.
And we became interested in the Ellen Valley through your artist Kate Green,
who was singing songs about the water pipe that links Ellen Valley to Birmingham.
And so as a part of our interest in that, we started talking with Ellen Links and that led to us coming up there for the weekend
to stay over at the bunkhouse and to see what was going on.
And back then, as you remember, there was very little water in the reservoir and it's a very different picture from what I guess it looks like today.
Yes, I think where the dams were ever flowing at the moment, we had some glorious weather back in the summer.
How did you find the bunkhouse? How did you find Concrete?
Oh, it was beautiful, absolutely beautiful. It's in a great situation.
And of course, it's a dark sky side. So we had the help of some astronomers and their telescopes.
We could see all sorts of things that I'd never seen before.
Dying stars and supernovas and galaxies and all sorts of things like that.
So, yes, it was very comfy and friendly and we were very well looked after.
We cooked our own food and did astronomy and had a little fire outside as well.
So it was just a great experience for all of us.
Good. And before your introduction to Cape Green, did you know where the water in Birmingham came from?
Absolutely. Well, as anybody who lives in Birmingham for any length of time knows,
there is an old and slightly dilapidated model of the Irland Valley in Cannon Hill Park, which is one of the major parks in Birmingham.
And, yeah, we used to go walking around this little model, which is probably about, I don't know, 10 yards square in the park.
It's just a sort of miniature model of all the dams and the valleys.
So I think most people in Birmingham, probably because of that, we know where our water comes from.
We know it comes from the Irland Valley and we know it comes from Wales.
Did you know how close the Irland Valley is to Birmingham?
I didn't really. I had a vague idea, I think. I had a vague idea.
And of course, now I know, thanks to Kate, it's 73 and a half miles because she sings about that in her song.
Yes, yes, that's right. And slightly uphill most of the way from Birmingham there, which is helpful for getting the water back the other way.
It is. It is indeed. It is indeed.
You mentioned your community group in the park. Now, how did you actually get involved in GOATS?
Oh, right. Well, GOATS was my idea, myself and my friend Ian.
We're just coming to our retirements. He's fully retired and I'm partially retired.
And we really wanted to set up a group in the local community that was for over 50s.
Initially, it was for predominantly men who were a little bit more likely to be socially isolated.
But we have a mixture of men and women these days.
Lovely, lovely. And you do all sorts of activities, do you?
Yeah, we tend to do what the members want us to do.
We spend a lot of time talking about things we might do and then we follow our interests.
So we sometimes go on cultural outings to different towns and cities.
And we sometimes do countryside activities or crafty activities like blacksmithing or bicycle maintenance or scything.
Wow. And it's really whatever people in the group want to do.
We're also trying to develop the group to be a group that is a source of wisdom for the community as well.
So like a village elders sort of function. And we're working on that at the moment.
Nice. OK. You mentioned the weather back in August and it is slightly wetter here today.
But of course, we're in Fort Hampton or Splendour at the moment.
So do you think you'd be tempted to come back to the valley?
Oh, definitely. I mean, we've got good we have good links with Elan Links now.
So, yeah, we want to just pursue and develop those.
We are still I mean, there are a few bits and pieces of connections now because I think there's a plan to regenerate the Elan Valley model in Cannon Hill Park.
We want to be part of that. We're also looking at the concrete posts.
I don't know whether you know about the concrete posts, which are which Kate walked around as you walked around the whole perimeter of the Elan Valley and did a photographic exhibition in Hereford.
Very recently, we all went to see.
And I think one of these concrete or one of the concrete posts, maybe one that hadn't been used, I understand it's in a shed somewhere on the site.
Kate's going to use as part of an exhibition in Birmingham.
And I think we as a part and cartridge part, we'd be quite happy to twin with the Elan Valley, even though we'd say the Elan Valley is slightly bigger than our part being, I think, one percent of the area of Wales.
And we're only a little part of about five acres.
But we'd love to twin with you, I think.
That would be a lovely idea.
That would be really nice.
I think things like your siding course could be used down here so you could come and help with some of the maintenance on the Elan Valley Trust and work alongside rangers and things.
That's exactly the sort of thing we'd like to get involved with.
The Cape Green project was wonderful because those concrete posts mark the watershed, which was the city council, so they're very historic items.
But of course, there's a lot of Bronze Age and Iron Age and Roman features in the valley as well.
So it is quite a special area.
But do you want to leave me with any impressions that you've got from the valley, from your tour around the valley?
What did you actually think of the place?
I mean, amazing. I suppose a really warm welcome from the people of the Elan Valley of all kinds.
Very warm welcome and absolutely breathtaking scenery and peace.
And the ability to have a swim in the river as well. That was fantastic.
That's something I won't forget.
Oh, that's wonderful. Well, hopefully he will see you back in the valley fairly soon.
It's been lovely talking to you today. I've no doubt.
And I'm most grateful for you adding to the story of Elan Valley.
No problem. Anytime.